add netlogo HPC instructions (#42)
mess-nlesc/model: docs/netlogoHPC/README.md

## Introduction

> This document describes how to run a single Netlogo model on HPC using Apptainer container. We use the [Netlogo installation file](https://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/6.3.0/NetLogo-6.3.0-64.tgz) as a base for our Apptainer container. The Apptainer container is then used to run the model in headless mode on HPC. The output is saved in a csv file.

Reviewer: Can you add an introduction that describes to project and the goal of this tutorial? This does not need to be technical at all.

## Requirements

> - Apptainer (https://apptainer.org/)

Reviewer: Other requirements would be:
- a Linux system with sudo rights
- BASH shell
- access to a HPC system via SSH

> ## Purpose

Reviewer: this is the same as Introduction. Here the next steps can be explained and it can be more technical.

> This document describes how to run a single Netlogo model on HPC using Apptainer container. We use the [Netlogo installation file](https://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/6.3.0/NetLogo-6.3.0-64.tgz) as a base for our Apptainer container. The Apptainer container is then used to run the model in headless mode on HPC. The output is saved in a csv file.

Reviewer: also explain why we need to use apptainer, what problem it solves

> This document describes how to run a single Netlogo model on HPC using Apptainer container. We use the [Netlogo installation file](https://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/6.3.0/NetLogo-6.3.0-64.tgz) as a base for our Apptainer container. The Apptainer container is then used to run the model in headless mode on HPC. The output is saved in a csv file.

Reviewer: explain what headless mode is

## Build a container

> Build a singularity container from the singularity definition file. A Linux system with sudo rights is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build a apptainer container from a definition file. A Linux system with sudo rights is needed.
```

> Build a singularity container from the singularity definition file. A Linux system with sudo rights is needed.

Reviewer: add a link to apptainer

```shell

> sudo apptainer build netlogo-headless.sif netlogo-headless.def

Reviewer: mention the reader needs to run this on her/his own system

```

> This will create an image `netlogo-headless.sif` from the corresponding definition file in the current directory. This image can be used to run the model in headless mode on HPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create an apptainer image `netlogo-headless.sif` from the corresponding definition file in the current directory. This image can be used to run the model in headless mode on HPC.
```

## Prepare `job.sh` file

> This line of code will execute a `netlogo-headless.sh` command within a singularity container. `--model` is an argument that specifies the NetLogo model to be run. The `--experiment` argument is optional and can be used to specify the name of the experiment. The `--table` argument is optional and can be used to specify the name of the output file.

Reviewer: may be better to show an example of normal usage and then show how you would use it with apptainer

```shell

> apptainer exec netlogo-headless.sif netlogo-headless.sh --model "PATH TO MODEL IN YOUR HOME DIR" --experiment "EXPERIMENT NAME" --table OUTPUT.CSV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apptainer exec netlogo-headless.sif netlogo-headless.sh --model "PATH_TO_MODEL" --experiment "EXPERIMENT_NAME" --table OUTPUT.CSV
```

```

For example to run a model `Wolf Sheep Simple 5.nlogo` with an experiment `Wolf Sheep Simple model analysis` and save the output in `wolf_sheep_output.csv`, use the following command.

```shell
apptainer exec netlogo-headless.sif netlogo-headless.sh --model "/app/netlogo/models/IABM Textbook/chapter 4/Wolf Sheep Simple 5.nlogo" --experiment "Wolf Sheep Simple model analysis" --table wolf_sheep_output.csv
```

Alternatively, you can run your own model  `main.nlogo` with an experiment `experiment` and save the output in `output.csv`, use the following command.

```shell
#!/bin/bash  

> apptainer exec netlogo-headless.sif netlogo-headless.sh --model "model/main.nlogo" --experiment "RD40to200_GC30_CSPHY3__50years" --table output.csv

Reviewer: explain where `RD40to200_GC30_CSPHY3__50years` is coming from

```    

> Place the code in the file `job.sh`, then change permissions to make it executable with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the code above as `job.sh`, then change permissions to make it executable with
```

```shell
chmod +x job.sh
```

> ## Create archive to be copied to HPC 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create an archive to be copied to HPC
```

Copy `model`, `netlogo-headless.sif`, and `job.sh` in the directory, say `jobHPC`.
Where `model` is a given model, `netlogo-headless.sif` is a container and `job.sh` is a shell script that contains command to be run.

> Create a gzip tarball of a directory.

Reviewer: Explain we do that to copy all the files to HPC system using scp
